In this video, we're going to take this validation, step right here and extract it into a helper middleware.
So instead of my middleware directory, I'm going to make a new file.
And we're going to call this new middleware.
Validate requests.
Then inside of here at the very top, we're going to add in a couple of imports right away.
I'm going to import request response.
And next function from Express.
Now, remember, these are types.
The only reason that we are importing these is to be able to provide some type annotations for TypeScript
to understand some information about the middleware we are going to be building.
In effect, it's very similar to the middleware we already put together the air handler one to remember
we had to import request, response and next function to describe the type of these arguments that were
going to be flowing into our middleware.
After that, we'll then import validation results from Express.
Validator.
And I'll also get that request validation error.
From up one directory errors.
Oop.
Forgot the path.
Request validation error.
That's better.
All right.
After that, we can put together our actual middleware.
So I'm going to export a new function called validate request.
This thing will be called with req.
That is a request.
RAZ That is a response.
And next that is a next function.
And I'm going to save this so you can see that entire statement.
Here we go.
Now, you might be curious, why does this look different than validate request or semi air handler?
Remember, air handler was an error handling middleware.
That is a very different type of middleware.
Express distinguishes between an air handling middleware and a normal one.
On the number of arguments that the function accepts.
So air handler over here is an error handling middleware.
So it has four arguments.
It's got that extra air one in there.
In this case, we're not making a distinct air handling middleware because we're not trying to capture
errors.
Instead, we are trying to produce errors.
We want to throw errors if the request is not valid.
That's what we're trying to do it inside of here.
So inside the body of this middleware will say.
Take a look at any errors that might have occurred using validation results on the incoming request.
If Aires is not empty.
So notice the not right there.
Then we will go ahead and throw a new.
Request, validation, error and pass in our array.
Of heirs.
If we get past this step right here, that means we want to move on to the next middleware in our chain
or potentially our final route handler.
So if we get past that statement, we will simply call next.
Like so.
All right.
That's pretty much it.
So now we can go back over to sign up and sign in and make use of this new middleware.
Let's first go to sign up.
Back inside of sign up at the very top.
I'm going to add in an import or validate request.
From Malware's validate request.
I'll collapse my sidebar so you can see that whole line.
And then all we have to do is make sure that we add this thing in after.
After we do that validation check.
Remember, all the middleware is run in a row and they run sequentially in order.
So if we try to wire up this middleware before we do the actual validation, then we're going to run
the middleware too early.
We have to do the validation first and then.
Handle that possible error right after.
So we're going to add in validate request right there.
Okay.
So now we can remove all the ear check and stuff from the request handler.
But that looks better.
Okay.
We can save the sign up file.
I'll then go back over to the sign in route handler that we are just working on and we'll do the same
thing over here.
So at the very top I will import, validate, request.
From.
Up one directory middleware.
Validate request.
Then go and add validate request in.
Now we can delete everything inside of the function.
And in both files we are no longer making use of validation results or request validation error so we
can delete both those endpoints.
I'll go back there to sign up and do the same thing.
So instead of signup, I'll delete request validation error and the validation result function.
Well, I'd say that looks a good bit better.
As I mentioned, we're going to end up using this middleware right here in just about every route handler
that is a post or a put or something similar across all of our different services.
So we are going to be reusing this middleware quite a bit.
Hey, this looks good.
I'm going to do a very quick test.
So back over inside a postman.
I'm going to put in an invalid password.
So an empty password send it off.
And yep.
Looks like everything is still working as expected.
Going to flip back over a quick pause right here and we'll continue working on sign in in just a moment.